[Music]
you
hello friends welcome back to this
follow-up session on mental imagery and
visual imagery so in the last class what
we saw was what our visual images and
what is imaginary and we looked at what
are the pitfalls of using imagery and
why imaginary studies we're negated in
the beginning of psychology so several
reasons for example imaginary cannot be
verified it is very personal
also imaginary mental imagery is
equivalent to a picture and so that's
one concern we cannot see Manatee and we
cannot actually verify people's imagery
also the idea that there is something
called visual imagery code into
long-term memory is also not proven
through experiments and so imaginary
studies were not taken seriously in the
beginning of psychology but later on
with a classical book by Alan pebeo on
mentally representations and using the
dual core processing model talked a lot
about what Wiesel imagining and what
other different things that can be done
with visual imagined so one of the
things that visual imaginary does for us
is it makes things easier for us it
makes retrieval of information easier
for us so if information is stored in
the long-term memory as visual code or
as visual images it is much easier for
us to retrieve it back the reason being
that visual images are more informative
and are more easily accessible and so we
in the last class also told you a lot
about different types of
weasel imaginary techniques which help
you into remembering or retrieval of
information now some of these techniques
were method of loci and the peg word
method and also the method of
interacting images now in each of these
what we actually did was in the method
of loci we made a mental picture of
space a physical space that we are very
familiar with and what we did was the
things that we need to learn was taken
in and then packed down to or tagged on
to certain locations of this well-known
space now in this way when we remembered
the space and certain locations in the
space those things that he wanted to
retrieve came back to us now in the
interacting images technique what we did
was we remembered two bits of
information as images and then we
combined these two bits of information
into an interactive image for example
remembering a dog or a pipe how do we
remember that - imagine your dog
imagine a pipe and then go ahead and
combine them together by imagining a dog
smoking a pipe now it's funny it's novel
and things which are no well I
remembered a much better than things
which are routine that's a novelty is
something which the brain treats as
interesting or as more
as more retrievable so novelty is the
reason why it is retrievable now in the
third method the peg word method we
specifically didn't use imagery what we
did was we used a technique in which
kind of routine ordered list which we
have rote memorization of was used and
things were then tagged on to this list
and so basically what we could do is how
these list lists are this rote memorized
list
it could be lists that we learned in
nursery as nursery rhymes for example 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or ABCD kind of a thing
and then we tagged on these rote
memorized list on to certain information
that we want to stick in to it and also
that's what we did the one two buckle my
shoe three four shut the door five six
pick up the sticks seven eight lay them
straight nine ten a big fat hen kind of
a thing and so there is a target and
there is a Q and the Q is 1 2 3 4 that
is the memorized list the target is the
world that you have to remember now
beside that we also saw several
conceptualizations or several reasons
which are given of how these mnemonic
techniques so basically the technique
sizer I just described up all pneumonic
techniques how do they work and so one
of the explanation which was given was
that in terms of the fact that LTM has
dual code a verbal code and a visual
code and so these two codes actually
lead to more number of retrieval cues
and so they are better remembered and
that is the
the world coding hypothesis proposed by
Allen Bayview we also looked at
something called relational
organizational hypothesis which was
presented by power where he talks about
the fact that if two images are if words
that have to be learned updated as image
and created as combined images then they
have better remembering because we try
to create a relation between these two
images and have an organizational scheme
for it and so that is the reason why we
have better recall the last thing that
we did in the last section or the last
session was looking at the evidences of
visual imagery and we saw two tasks a
visual task and a verbal TAS and we saw
that preferences in terms of method of
the tribal I was for visual it was
visual was better
whereas for verbal the method of
retrieval over Veloz better now in
today's lecture what we do is we will
continue from what we learned in the
last lecture and then look at some more
evidence for the existence of visual
imagined so one existence is that the
well evidence for the existence of
visual imagery is the fact that certain
kind of visual image when it is encoded
the method retrieval preferred for it is
also visual the second evidence is
mental rotation so what is mental
rotation basically what people do is
when they are given some mental image
they're given some kind of a picture
they are able to mentally rotate so one
important finding for imagine is that
people can do some simple rotations of
images for example and they can mentally
transform them for example look at this
now this kind of rotation that you're
seeing of a basic curve of a circle can
be done mentally and so this people take
in images and they can mentally rotate
them and so if we can test the idea or
if we can provide evidence for the idea
that people go ahead and transform these
images or if we can come up with
solutions in terms of the fact that give
them give people certain certain
instances in which ask them to rotate a
mental image and give them certain
instances to verify whether these images
will fit into the model of their
transformation or whether the sequence
give them a sequence out of the rotation
and if they match then we can say that
people form mental images and they also
rotate them now what I mean by that is
if people are certain mental image to
think about and ask them to rotate into
certain sequence for example either
anti-clockwise or clockwise now once
they are doing that gave them a certain
sequence of rotation a certain sequence
of rotation from the original angle of
rotation and asked them to verify
whether this is a part of their mental
rotation now if they could verify and
the time that they took to verification
will lead us to certain kind of fact
that people create materials so to start
with the idea and this is exactly what
one of the Li and Cooper actually went
ahead and did this experiment to prove
that people do for mental images and
rotate but even before going that what
we could see here is this kind of
rotation that we are seeing
here people do this kind of rotations or
if you look into the other one so this
is called a tesseract a tesseract is
basically an four dimensional image and
a four dimensional image rotation so
people can also go ahead and rotate
images in multiple dimensions and so
this is an existence or this is an
evidence for the existence of mental
imagery or you would have seen images
like this so these are called in very
basic games these kind of images are
used and so these images
it's called Tetris as there is a game
out there which is called Tetris and so
these kind of rotations can be done or
people are able to rotate so these are
the standards and people are able to
rotate these standards into these kind
of rotational sequences they can
mentally rotate that so these are
questions which I you would have found
in some of your exams of some of your
competitive exams where you get the
sequence one standard sequence and then
a couple of sequences are given to you
where it is asked whether this sequence
what is the next sequence from this
sequence and so if you look into it
what is the next sequence that you
should get for this sequence obviously
the answer is a here because this is the
one sequence which can happen so if you
rotate it by say almost 70 degree
towards clockwise this way on this axis
if you rotate it by 70 degree you will
get the sequence and so this basically
the existence of the fact that you can
come up with an answer a by rotating
this was to true and axis by 70 degree
is the fact that people are able to do
mental rotation similarly for this kind
of image you can do rotations like this
now this kind of tests were done by
Shepherd and Messner and what they found
out in their experiment they showed that
participants
they so can rotate line drawings of
three-dimensional objects so in this in
their experiment they took participants
and they give them simple line drawings
like this so these kind of line drawings
are given to people and they were asked
in these subjects were asked in to
basically verify whether which one of
these line drawings can actually be the
next occurrence or the next sequence
from this one so this is what your
Shepherd in Melser actually experiments
all about and if we are able to prove
that people can exactly go ahead and
find an answer which basically means
that people are auditing mentally
rotating images and that lead to the
fact that people are able to create
mental imagery or the evidence of mental
imagery is established so they gave
people this kind of line drawings and
they asked people to rotate these in
three-dimensional accesses now in each
trial the subjects would see two typos
trying so two type of drawings were
shown to people in the first the same
object with one rotated to some degree
so you either have so the first one as
you see here is basically the same
object which is rotated to some degree
of rotation so as I said if you rotate
it 70 degree you will find this is a 70
degree and so same image is there until
been rotated and here in this case what
has happened is the original image is
being rotated as mirror image so the
mirror image of this is being so here
the original is being rotated and here
the mirror image of this diagram is
being rotated to certainly certainly
this was what Shepard Melser did was
they took these kind of simple
three-dimensional line drawings and gave
people to verify certain sequences by
mentally rotating this image and so one
of these was the same object with so one
of these experiments had rotations of
the same object which had been rotated
to some degrees and in the other case
the mirror image in the other case miron
image or reversal with or without
rotation was you
so the same image the image was taking a
mirror image of this image was the
original image was taken and that was
rotate to certain degrees so either a
mirror image was there or the mirror
image rotated to certain degree was
there in people we need asked to verify
whether which of these sequences fit to
the original sequence through rotation
now the result of the experiment what it
showed is that the amount of time that
participants actually took in deciding
whether the same object has been rotated
or a mirror image reversal was there was
directly proportional to the angle of
rotation between the drawings so more
the angle of rotation or higher the
angle of rotation the higher the time
people required because the more the
angle of rotation the more kind of
rotational dynamics you have to use in
your in your mentally and then more time
we will required if simple angles of
rotations of 90 180 or 360 are used then
it's easier for you to rotate it but if
a angle of let's say 60 degree or the 75
degree is used now that type of rotation
takes a long time because these 45 90
180 270 or 360 are huge angles that we
see around us and so it's kind of purple
the perpendicular angles or popular
angles and so is easier for us and so
what people what Messner found from the
expansion measure from from the
experiment is that people were able to
verify but then the time period for
verification depended on how much the
angle of rotation is also there is a
close relation between the angle of
rotation of the drawings and the
participants reaction time strongly
suggesting that people from mental
rotation so that is what we were doing
or that is what I was actually trying to
tell you that people were actually
mentally rotating and so this evidence
or this experiment basically provides
evidence to the fact that people use
mental in
that people go ahead and form mental
image and not only form mental images
they also go ahead and rotate these
mental images and so that's what
factories are the evidence for mental
imagery is and so this kind of images
were also used so these are the ones
which are used by Shepard in münster and
this is mental rotation tasks based on
canonical rotation so basically images
and be really much kind of a thing so
these are three dimensional line
drawings and these are two dimensional
line so another question which puzzle
researchers was so basically what we
found out up till now is that separate
mendler they establish the fact that
people were able to rotate an image
mentally for my image was to fall and
then rotate them mentally to certain
degrees and that was evident from the
fact that how much reaction time people
were taking and that was actually
proportional to angle of rotation but
the first fact being that people were
able to verify certain rotations which
are available or certain rotational
instances which are available and the
fact that angles of rotations which
which were at at an on to normal
not-so-popular angle they were taking
more three action times which basically
means that people know we're not only
forming a mental image but they were
also rotate another question that was
varying people or that was wearing
psychologists where the fact that
whether people mentally rotated the
whole part of the image or part of the
image so once doing the mental rotation
task or once taking an image and
mentally rotating it what was the kind
of rotation that people were doing were
they taking in part of the imagine
rotating it or whether actually rotating
the whole image and so Leland Cooper and
75 they used or design an experiment to
test this hypothesis so what they did
was they took in some kind of an
irregular polygon task and found that
reaction time increased linearly with
the angle of rotation and the
of rotation being same for all the
polygons regarding of the complexity so
basically the idea that they found out
the results that they found out first
let's see the task that they have so
this is the kind of task that they have
these are the irregular polygon so you
have a six point eight point twelve
point sixteen point twenty four point
polygon this is the standard form of the
polygon and then you have the reflected
from the polygon these are the mirror
images so reflected from this basically
mirror image so different million images
were there and so these mental images or
these polygons were taken in so this was
the standard first six point eight point
polygons and certain instances were
given to people to test whether this
fits into the scheme whether target
rotational image that was presented to
them could be possible in the rotation
in the kind of rotation that they're
doing to the mental images so three were
used a standard form was use the
reflected form was use and rotated the
stimuli were given to them so for
example this is rotated by sixty degree
and people were asked to verify this
whether this is possible with this kind
of a polygon with a rotation the
question that stand that was being asked
or that was be investigated was the fact
that do people rotate the whole image or
partial image and so the results that
Lynne in Cooper got from these
experiments was they found the reaction
time they increased linearly with the
angle of rotation and the rate of
rotation so basically the kind the the
speed at which the rotation people are
performing and the angle that kind of
angle that they were rotating good it to
so 45 90 degree way easier but if an
angle of seventy five eighty or ninety
five degrees are used then people were
taking more reaction time also with this
the speed of rotation dependent on this
thing not also the reaction I was and in
this case the rate of rotation for all
the polygons regardless of the
complexity so the fact is no matter
whether it is an eight point polygon or
a twelve point polygon or a six point
polygon people we're facing difficulty
all along in
that with the angles of rotations we're
at abnormal angles then people were
taking more time now in another study so
basically this proves the fact that
people rotated the whole polygon instead
of rotating parts of it people were
actually rotating the whole polygon so
this study demonstrates the fact that
even if it was a six point eight point
ten point or twelve point following on
people were actually going ahead and
rotating it and the only answer that
they're getting is that the angle of
rotation is the the only question or the
factor which decides the reaction time
now all the polygons were apparently the
same speed it was either clockwise or
anti-clockwise and so the fact here was
that as the angle of rotations of the
original polygon onto the target one so
this is the one which is the rotated so
this is my target polygon and this is my
cue polygon and so once the angle if the
angles of rotations are 360 240 it is
easier for his angles the rotation are
60 degree or 120 degree then the
difficulty arises because these are
abnormal angers people don't see these
angles too much and so that was the
result from these studies now another
study Cooper did in 76 showed that
mental rotations like physical rotations
are continuous in nature and so what
they did in this study so they wanted to
study Cooper wanted to study whether
these mental rotations were continuous
in nature in the sense that do people
rotate in a continuous form so if I ask
people if I ask someone to rotate take
off mental image of something and rotate
in clockwise direction do people rotate
in in continuous nature and to test this
they design an experiment in which they
presented people with with instances
from the rotation so let's say if I have
an image like this and I asked people to
rotate this clockwise starting from this
is zero degrees and when people are
rotating it I'll stop them somewhere
here at some point of time let's say two
minutes into the rotation I'll stop them
and then I will show them a figure like
this which is let's
a 60-degree rotated to the origin so
this is the original angle so 60-degree
rotated to the original angle so this is
my original figure then this is at a
zero Degree then I rotate it by sixty
degree let's say this is sixty degree to
the original angle so this angle is 60
degree and here is my rotated image so
my rotated image will be something like
this and so people were given this kind
of images in between to verify whether
this is there or not and this is what
the experiments and so they found out
that people were actually able to verify
that which basically means that people
were continuously rotating through this
polygon they were not rotating it at
certain angles they were continuously
rotating it and the method that they
used to test this was they stopped
people at certain points of rotation and
presented them with a instance of
rotated image and asked them to verify
whether this can exist or not or this is
a part of their rotation or not and so
this is a very simple task and so people
were able to verify it which basically
means that they were oval people were
rotating it continuously any image they
were rotating it continuously also
cognitive psychologists they started
searching how people recognize objects
presented in unusual angles so basically
something is presented into an unusual
angle let's say at a 95 degree so how do
you recognize that an object so one
possibility that was available to
psychologists was that mentally rotate
the image till it reaches the
orientation of our depiction or that
distinctive jion's of the object remain
visible we can recognize them with
rotation so basically if something is
presented at an abnormal angle how do
people recognize it so one proposal was
that people actually either rotated it
to continuously to the refer to the
point at which the rotated image is
exact match with the original image of
original image which is represented to
you as target or what people were doing
is they took the object to copy the
jion's and rotated the jion's
to look into it for example one
demonstration could be if I put a coin
onto the stable and
let's say any coin onto this table and
then I don't look at it from a top view
I come parallel to this table so this is
my table and so I put a coin here and so
don't look at the coin this way I looked
at I look at the coin from this way now
when I look at the current from this way
or from down up kind of a thing from
this this line of sight then what would
happen
so in this cases this will be an
original angle this will be an abnormal
angle so for let's say if and door is
like this let's demonstrate it in like
this this and then when this door comes
very nearby
I don't Emma straight it this way so
basically when it is coming near to me
it becomes larger in this way and so
these are abnormal angles which are
there so how do I verify that so what
people did in terms of whether this is
the same door so this is position 1 and
this is position 2 so in my position
when my door is here and it is further
away from me this is the hinge and in
position 2 it is very near to me so this
is the hinge and so it is this is how
the door looks like so how do I verify
it
this door is at irregular angle what I
really do is I either there are two ways
to it I either I rotate this door into a
clockwise direction till it matches this
particular figure this is one view or
that distinct in jion's are the objects
remain visible and we can recognize them
with rotation so the idea here the Gion
here is our TechEd angle so a rectangle
is the G on which forms this door so
what I do is this rectangle is still
visible to us whether it is lopsided or
not whether this rectangle is bigger or
smaller is not the question the question
here is whether this rectangle is
visible to us and so if this rectangle
is visible to us we can then rotate this
G on and actually think that the dories
are being shut or it is being moved
towards me or away from me and that is
how this Steven Pinker and tar in 1989
they gave an explanation to the fact
that how do people actually recognize
object at unusual
angles and so this is the image that was
used by Lynn and Cooper and so this is
the original image this is the mirror
image and this is the image which is
tested across various angles so 60 60
240 and 120 are angles which are
abnormal angles 180 and 360 degree R so
180 would be basically a mirror image
and 360 degree will be a complete
rotational of image of it and so this is
our people actually using and so looking
at this demonstration so basically what
we're looking at is this figure being
rotated in a different plane and at
different angles so this is basically
how people go ahead and rotate it and so
this is how mental rotation of images
exist and so this mental rotation of
images the fact that we can verify
certain rotations provide enough
evidence for the fact that people do for
mental images and mental imagery is
actually a code which can be used so
let's then look at some other aspects of
this mental imagining the question is
what is the nature of the mental images
that we are talking about what is the
form of it so one of the things is that
visual images they share properties with
pictures the visual images that we have
they have more or less exactly like a
picture but what are images what kind of
properties do images have and how these
like and and like the properties or real
picture have that has to be discussed so
what is a one-to-one relation between
our picture and image that is what needs
to be seen in what properties they share
with this picture and what properties
they don't how are they like a picture
how they are not like and what is the
distinction is what we are going to see
in terms of the nature of imagery so
ronald think in 89 1989 he proposed some
fundamental principles of visual imagery
he said that visual imagery has certain
fundamental properties certain
fundamental features which we can
discuss in which we can see and these
features basically correspond to the
picture thing so what we did was he
proposed five different fundamental
principles and they took visual imagery
he took visual imagery in pictures and
compared them across so what are these
five
features of a mental image first thing
is something called implicit coding so
what it says is that mental imagery
basically encodes some information
implicitly which pictures cannot example
remember the first class that I asked
you in this section in this session the
the earlier session on visual memory I
asked you to think about what was on the
wall on your bedroom and so there were
implicit information there were things
which were in your mind or there were
things in the image which you never
thought about so you might have never
thought how many cells of the window are
present but then when I ask you this
question you can mentally count it which
means that the information about the
number of cells which your windows have
is implicitly in coltan that is what
this basically this principle says so it
says that mental imagery is instrument
in retrieving information about physical
properties or objects or about physical
relationships among objects that is not
explicitly encoded at a previous time
and that is what I was talking about
though certain informations which
pictures can't have visual images can
have so you can have information certain
information about certain facts embedded
into a visual imagery or visual image
which is not possible at a picture level
the second thing is that perceptual
equivalence how a visual image is
equivalent to a picture it has
perceptual equivalence for example it
has been found that imagine is
functionally equivalent to perception of
the extended similar mechanism the
visual systems are activated when
objects are events are imagined as when
the same object or events are actually
perceived so there will be certain there
were studies which were done certain new
studies which were done within fMRI and
it was found out that the same areas of
the brain get activated except the
visual eye system which takes in new
information when you imagine something
so if people are asked to imagine a
coffee cup and Whipple are shown a
coffee cup the way they perceive these
two things together the number of areas
the kind of connections that these areas
have are exactly the same the same brain
get activated the same kind of
connections are activated and so what
happens is that imagine E is more or
less same as looking at a picture or
looking at something which is out there
so it is imagined is basically same as
looking the only difference being that
there is no input the input system is
not that the same visual cortex is the
same areas of the brain which verify an
image which does object recognition
which lets the frontal cortex know what
it is and then come out come up with our
decision of what possible objects could
the visual imaginary be all those areas
are the same and they say get activated
the same way but know only the input
system which is the eye is not activated
and so in this way the visual images are
similar to and picture now the third
principle which thing gave in terms of a
third property of a visual image is
called spatial equivalence now what does
it mean it means that the spatial
arrangement of the elements of a mental
image corresponds to the way objects or
their parts are arranged in actual
physical surface or an actual physical
space so basically in there are some
experiments done by kosslyn and so what
they did was kosslyn did was he created
a fictitious map and in this map what he
did was he made certain positions right
so he created a map like this and in
this map he had created certain
positions and these positions had
certain kind of placeholders so you have
certain things on this maps and ask
people to move from point A from point A
to point B and place some hurdles here
and so he looked at the time that people
took to move from point A to point B so
what he did was he showed them map these
positions and asked them to move later
on they asked people to imagine this map
to think about this map think about a
map of America I think about a map of
India start from Kanyakumari and
then move towards Bangalore or start
from Kanyakumari and move towards Bombay
now do that and what you have to do is
you're to then basically in this moment
describe all the places that you venture
into or going to and then I show you
actually the map of India and ask you to
move from point A to B kind of a thing a
very simple explanation now what they
found out is that the time that people
took right from moving from point A to B
the kind of arrangement the kind of
movement that people did in terms of the
actual map is the same time and the same
kind of arrangement or same kind of
woman that people didn't mentally
imagine it basically means that people
when they move in terms of images in
terms of real pictures in terms of real
movement and in terms of mental imagery
it's more or less same so the spatial
locations in terms of moving in spaces
whether in it whether through a mental
imagery or through a picture for real
motion or real movement in terms of
space are more or less same so people
took the same time from moving from
point A to B in terms of mental imagery
when they imagined this map and thought
of the movement then similar to what
people did in terms of making movements
when they were actually moving from
point A to B or the another experiment
was done where they where costly and
showed people a flower rather a tree and
asked them to move from the top of the
tree and start naming right so start
claiming what is at the top of the tree
towards the bottom to the root start
naming all the things that you find and
so the time that people took on the
number of the elements that they kept on
saying when they move from the top of
the tree to the bottom of the tree or
top of flower to the bottom of flower
then the
the number of elements then they said
that the flower possessed when moving
from the top of a flower towards its
stem or top of a tree towards this root
was similar in terms of both in in terms
of actual spatial movement in actual
movement of a flower as compared to the
movement in terms of an imaginary when
they were asked to imagine this flower
and made to move which basically means
that in a spatial location in terms of
spatial locations both the image and
flowers at sorry the image and the
pictures are same the fourth property is
in terms of transformational equivalence
and what does it say that imagined
transformations and physical
transformations exhibit correspondingly
dynamic characteristics in a governed by
the same laws and is the same experiment
which Cooper did in 1976 so what
happened in his experiment where people
were actually given a cube to look at
and they were asked to rotate this cube
through certain angles then they were
asked to basically take this cube
mentally imagine this cube and make the
rotations and then people were tested
with certain instances what was found
out that the same amount of time or the
same amount of verification was done by
both or the same accuracy of
verification was outputted when people
were transforming mental images as where
they were physically transforming an
object it basically means that people
while imagining we're also able to
transform are also able to mentally
rotate images and that is what we saw in
the earlier examples also so visual
images are not just static people also
transform them and these transformations
these rotations either on the axis or
across accesses or a different excesses
are similar to the physical
transformation which is there and so the
result from Cooper remember the result
the experiment of Cooper 76 where they
made people transform certain images and
onto certain angles and then tested
certain instances with the accuracy of
it the same experiment can be used
and evidence here and the fifth property
of think of visual images is called
structural equivalence now what does it
means the structure of mental images
correspond to the actual perceive images
and so in this case Gosling and Farah
and figgle they gave people certain
structures certain images which had very
bleak structure and certain image which
has complex structure for example they
showed people let's say the drawing of a
fish I am not very good at drawing good
drawing of fish like this and so it has
very less detail or they showed people
the drawing of a fish like this which
has skills like this right and this kind
of fins and other things here so this is
a complex image because it has more
details into it and these are the simple
image which has lesser details into it
so when given people these two kinds of
things and ask and then ask them to
retry more time was taken by people to
verify to actually make the structural
verification or to actually perceive
this one the complex picture as compared
to the simple picture now in terms of
imagination also when people were asked
to imagine a fish like this with these
many features they took longer time to
imagine a fish like this or they took
more time for complex image imaginations
then imaginations of simple images which
basically means that in terms of
structure also in terms of the fact that
when people imagined they imagined with
complexity where they imagined
complexity with more time the more
complex a picture is takes more time
because more number of elaborations have
to be done and so this idea of mode
number of collaborations are also in
present in visual imagery which means
that the same kind of verifications in
terms of complex and simple images
happen both for the the picture for the
physical transformations as well as men
transformations so find different kind
of things to look at again reviewing
quickly back into what it's all about
and so the fight thing first visual
images have implicit coding so it has
implicit informations into it which
pictures do not then perceptual
equivalence perceptually speaking the
same areas of the brain are active when
a picture is imagined or a picture a
picture is seen the third is structure
especially equivalence so in terms of
movement in space they are border there
is the same the fourth is
transformational equivalence so mental
images can be transformed similar to
what physically physical pictures could
be and then the fifth is structural
equivalence in terms of structure in
terms of complexity the same kind of
complexity the same kind of processes
exist with both the mental image as well
as the actual image now there are
certain critiques to this mental imagery
certain criticisms which have been there
to this mental imagining what are these
criticisms so there are three main
criticisms first is tacit knowledge and
demand characteristics
so basically mental imagery has been
criticized on certain factors first is
the tacit knowledge people had some kind
of knowledge of people gather some kind
of knowledge from experimenters in terms
of transformation so that's one thing
and demand characteristics is certain
past mental imagery tasks demand certain
characteristics or demand certain kind
of response from people so that is one
thing and so the that's how it's looked
at the second is the picture metaphor
where a comparison between picture and
mental image is done and the third is
the propositional theory so let's look
at these critics one by one the first is
tacit knowledge and demand
characteristics and so what salinity one
they argue that the results from many
majorie studies they reflect
participants underlying and implicit
tacit knowledge and beliefs about the
task rather than their construction and
manipulation of visual images so what
they found out or what they told is that
people they actually what they were
doing is they were look they were acting
upon to something called experimenter
effect which basically means that it's
who were asking us them to do these
construct these mental images they were
actually providing some kind of a clue
so either mentally or either physically
mentally or some form and so this was
the reason why people were able to
create mental images or do all kind of
manipulation into mental images so think
with this example of moving the coffee
cup provided evidence to show silence
cup so basically what was this coffee
cup experiments is a very simple
experiment and so what it was that if a
kosslyn actually initiated this
experiment are an fing calibrated onto
it so what the experiment was that a
coffee cup was put onto a table and it
was asked we move from point A to point
B so I have a coffee cup like this on -
this is a table and this is position a
and this is position P and I want to
move my coffee cup from point A to point
B now physically two ways are possible I
will pick up this coffee cup from here
and then move it over air to point B or
I can slide the cup from point A to
point B now when I do that a certain
amount of time requires now when I have
people were asked to imagine to move
this coffee cup from A to B what they
found out that they could do it very
quickly they actually could do it very
frequently but then people were pausing
people were taking thinking about taking
the coffee cup and taking the same
amount of time or rather a little bit
more time when moving the coffee cup
from point A to B and why was this there
they were the reason that thing Gail is
that the experimenter were giving
certain demand characteristics are
certain kind of clues which asked or
which made people mentally pause the
coffee cup position in their head and
then take that amount of time what they
were thinking is or what their
conclusion is that people actually
thought that although this can be done
quickly
but this is the amount of time it should
take and so I should pause the cup
mentally and so these type of talks
the tasks are called cognitively in
imporant table which basically means
that these tasks are open to influences
from belief systems from the ad from
your previous knowledge and so on and so
forth so what people did was people also
took experimental e same time in terms
of movement from point A to B on a table
and in terms of imagination studies also
but it was not that people were had this
this is because of imagination what
really happened is that certain
knowledge from previous situations or
certain clues from the experimenters
made people actually mentally pause the
cup somewhere and then take exactly the
same time that the that a physical
movement would do and that is what their
explanation is now file in eighty-one
this states the stage that tasks are
that are affected by people's belief and
expectations are termed as cognitive
penetrable and so that is what it is so
basically what happens is since these
kind of tasks give the person doing it a
chance to use the knowledge that this is
the time we should took from it should
take from moving the coffee cup from A
to B and so what they do is they
actually go ahead and mentally pause it
so it's basically not the image
construction or the image movement which
is taking up the time it is basically a
mental pausing the idea that people get
this clue and using this clue as many
positive now such task makes it obvious
to participants that they out to perform
and are said to have demand
characteristics so trust us basically in
the coffee cup moving experiment people
know that it should take at least one
second to second five second and so on
and so forth and so what they do is
although mentally they can move very
quickly they pause somewhere or they
take more time we cost to match the idea
that this this captured this movement
should be matched to the actual time
also sometimes experimenter
unconsciously give subtle cues to the
participants now in intense and in turns
and Peterson call such effective
experimental expectancy effect so what
happens is sometimes in these
experiments what the experiment tend to
do is the
tends to give certain clues to to the
subjects who are doing mental rotation
for example a probable nod if they're
verifying a particular angle or cue with
which has been rotated a certain angle
so maybe a subtle cue or a certain aha
or a certain gesture which gives the
subject or which provides the subject
some kind of a clue of whether it is
right or not and so they say that these
clues are the reason why they are doing
so correctly and so mental imagery is
suffering from these kind of problems
the other critique is called the picture
metaphor so what is here so visual
images are casually spoken as mental
pictures so visual images are thought of
as mental picture so how they are how
far the statement is true for file in 73
he pointed out that pictures and images
differ in several ways there are meant
although mental imagery is thought of as
a mental picture but there is was
demarcation between what a picture is
and what a mental images and so what is
the demarcation first pictures can
physically be looked at without knowing
what it is in a picture that we are
looking but mental images cannot be done
so if you're looking at a picture of
someone you don't know right and so in
this case is so you have a friend a
friend has a friend and so you looking
your friends and other the friends
friends picture you might not know the
friend's friend and so you can very well
look into it without knowing anything
about it or a picture of some place that
you have visited if you looking into it
you might not know where this place is
and you is perfectly okay to look into
it but visually imaginary cannot go
through those parameters you have to
first know so if I am thinking about the
United States I am actually know that
this is the United States I am thinking
about Berlin we have lived for some time
so the idea is that I am thinking about
Berlin which means that I have named it
and so on thinking about that place so I
have to know Berlin before thinking
about it and forming a mental image
about it whereas in picture is not
necessary
so first difference second difference
pictures are and images are disrupted
and destructible in different majors
raises so pictures can be destructed or
it can be disrupted and
[Music]
distracted in different ways for example
if certain you can cut out certain
things from a picture
certainly so if you don't like your best
friend who has now becoming enemy you
can cut him out of the picture but if
you try cutting out something from a
mental image the mentally will image
disappears so basically you cannot cut
certain pictures from a mental image
third images are more easily distorted
by viewers interpretation so if I give
you an interpretation if I say that in
in a if I show you a picture of a friend
two friends together which are both a
common friend and then I say that this
friend is a little bit shrewd now there
will be a change in this picture but if
I ask you to imagine a friend or imagine
your friend's friend and your friend and
then say a shrewd the kind of image
changes the mental image will change
particularly a more cunning kind of an
image of the second friend would appear
but in terms of picture this cannot
happen so basically these distortions
can happen in terms of images but in
terms of pictures it cannot and so the
comparison between a picture a mental
image is not true because of these
factors which have been outlined now
also the fact that to prove that
people's view or people's interpretation
defines a picture a kind of this kind of
setup was given now people were given
this kind of a bizarre drawing to look
at and then in two different sessions
two different settings or two different
retrieval sessions in one session people
were shown this and they were then given
a clue that this is letter C and when a
retrieval was done after two weeks so
this is retrieval one after two weeks
but then the same group is there so this
is after two weeks then later on they
come back after one month they shown
this again and then given this kind of a
verbal label and after this verbal level
after two weeks and interpretation or re
travel was done so when they were shown
this and said that is letter C this is
the retrieval but it was when they were
are said that is a crescent moon this is
the retriever and so basically this is
what it is so images mental images are
dependent on people interpretation so
when a verbally
this was shown in a bubble level hat was
given this is the retrieval image but
when it was shown and a beehive was what
was told what was asked them or what was
told to them this is what it is this is
the rate reverse
similarly this a dumbbell would result
in this and eyeglass would this and if a
verbal label of 4 was given to it or 4
was there and a 7 was given to it a 7
interpreted onto it and similarly so on
and so forth so basically this image
this kind of image was given to people
this kind of verbal label was given to
people so these verbal labels were given
to people and then later on retrieval
was done so depending on the kind of
verbal label the interpretations or the
retrieval imagery was different and so
this basically proves that the imagery
is open to interpretations of people the
third kind of problem the critique which
has been said in terms of of mental
imagery is called the propositional
theory so what is propositional theory
so proposed originally it was believed
that there are two codes that of mental
images one was the vocal code or the
verbal code which is from the short-term
memory and then there is a semantic code
which is basically the long-term memory
interpretations or long-term memory
storing so original mental imagery
imagery idea is that mental images are
special type of encoding and so later on
when mental imaginary studies it was
believed that mental imagery is also
code for long-term memory now
proportional theorists they say that it
is not true so what proportional theory
says is there I have no code so there
are no ways on which a code is trained
and that is what they say they say that
there is only one kind of encoding into
long-term memory and that is neither
visual nor verbal in nature and they
suggested they suggested that the
experience of having a mental image is
just really r.fp phenomena and so what
is stored into the long-term memory is
basically a a proposition and what is
the proposition proposition are
basically relationships between items
for example if I write on book and table
this is how remember from the first
class that we did a special equivalence
so this is a propositional code which
says that the book is on the table so on
what is on the first object the book is
on where it is on it is on the table so
this is how codes are because this is a
preposition because it makes
relationship this on is a preposition
which is making relationship between the
book and the table and so this is how it
actually goes ahead NS is saved so
basically then this is the code that is
saved into the LTL rather than a visual
code in a verbal code also fill in
suggested that the experience of having
a mental image is really just an
epiphenomena something that happens with
a process but does not cause the process
instead is just a by-product now without
the epiphenomena the process would go
just like normal not necessary for
process to occur so what he says is
mental imagery that we talked about is
just in epiphenomena it's nothing
special into it and he has given several
examples of seven goos for that for
example he says that when a computer is
calculating something it often has a
flashing light which shows that it is
calculating most people believe that
this flashing light represents what it
is calculating but actually the flashing
light has nothing to do with it's an
active phenomena it has nothing to do
with what is going on similarly mentally
imagine is epiphenomena like this
because if the light blows away tomorrow
or if the light is dysfunctional
well it doesn't mean the computer stops
working so this light is just a
by-product off from whatever is
happening and so light has nothing no
relevance to the computation similarly
mental imaginary has no relation to the
computation because codes that are used
in mental image is basically
propositional nature so instead of
encoding inside the encoding is
propositional nature when concepts are
stored as symbols and what is stored is
not the physical relationship but a
concept field one like the network model
of memory so that show to you this is
the proportion and so in the proposition
I have a book network a concept and a
table concept and then the relation to
this is the on concept I can basically
this is the proportion which is safe
this is neither verbal nor visual in
nature so what is toad
in memory in long-term memory our
concepts and symbols and this
consciousness symbol from some kind of a
network and this conceptual network and
this is how the storing happens in
long-term memory
so it would make sense they're trying to
scan a part from a flat to the back of
the board to a cabin would take less
time than scanning from the flat to the
emblem because when we are scanning from
the back of the board to the front of
the board to from the back of the board
to the cabin is longer so look at this
image
I'm from scanning from the back of the
board this is where the emblem is and
this is where the cabin is so if I am if
I am scanning from the rear deck to the
front deck it has three levels to go
from and so it should there are three
prepositions to be verified and so takes
more time whereas if I have to verify
the emblem which is there from here it
has two levels only so it is easier and
so that is what it says it should it
would take less time than scanning from
the flag to them since you would have to
move from two level of networking or two
levels of the hierarchy to four levels
of the hierarchy so it is possible to
explain scanning times without having to
use mental images and that is why the
higher scanning time and lower scanning
tank that people are using in terms of
complex and non complex images remember
Fink's idea is because of the fact that
not people are making images it is
because the number of propositions that
they are testing the number of
hierarchies that they are moving in a
network is more as compared to less and
so if I have to where if I come to the
emblem from here from the portal it will
take more time because more number of
networks or more number of preposition
seem to be tested then if I have moved
from here to here where a number of
propositions is less and so the last
section has to deal with something
called spatial cognition so basically
how do we move in a special environment
and so the three ways of moving in a
special environment when we move in
spaces when we move in enclosed spaces
or any kind of space out there there are
three things to be looked at first there
is something called the space of the
body now this is there are the parts of
the body located at any particular time
so while moving in a spatial location
while moving in your environment we use
three different kinds of information
first is the call the space of the body
so we move
into something called the ego centric
approach or the space of the body
approach in this case the movement is
done in terms of where my hands and legs
are so left from my left my right
towards the front of me towards the back
of me is kind of a thing so where my
body parts are and based on that I make
a movement in spaces in faces which I
finished fixed with locations and the
second is the space around the body the
area immediately around you and so it
could be in terms of not in terms of the
body not in terms of certain regions of
the body but in terms of the area around
the body so in front of me at the back
of me kind of a thing so in both of
these are basically they go centering
right so towards my left hand towards my
light hand but in front of me in back of
me is kind of space around the body so
towards towards the left of my left hand
towards the right of my right hand is
basically space around the body so two
types of information both are egocentric
in nature and that is what we use we
also use spaces of navigation larger
spaces that we walk through travel or
explore so in this case what we say is
where this is called the LOC entry el
eccentric movement so Al LOC en PR IC el
eccentric and this is egocentric so you
got eccentric is making yourself as the
center el eccentric is making external
objects so left from the hotel right
from the cabin back from something front
from something so using something into
the environments using certain land mass
movement using landmarks in these cases
I am using the body as object of
movement so spaces in front and back of
me or spaces relays in relation to
certain body parts or I could use
spatial navigation in terms of certain
features or certain objects which are
there into the environment which are
called landmarks now our mental
representations of these spaces may be
distorted made neater and more regular
so basically based on these we create
something called the spatial map or
cognitive map and these currently map
actually help us in moving and this is
the mental image that we make so
make a mental image of the space around
us we use three reference points so one
is with the self it's with our self then
with our landmarks and combine them
together to form mental images and these
mental images are then used to move
around any space out there into the
environment any space into the
environment so basically what we did in
this today's lecture is we tacked on to
what we learned in the last lecture so
what we did was we verified the fact
that mental imagery is there by looking
at rotational Studies now with in
addition to that we looked at that's how
rotational Studies complement the idea
that mental imagery exists and we looked
at certain kind of answers in terms of
angle of rotation being the only factor
which which guides the rotational
mechanism or the rotational time that we
take in addition we also looked at
certain principles of mental imagery so
five different principles in terms of
things theory and then we looked at
certain critiques or certain criticisms
of that idea of mental imagery for
example demand characteristics the idea
that the code that the brain uses are
only propositional codes are the fact
that pictures are not mental images and
lastly we looked at how special
cognition is stored so spaces around us
are stored as mental images and I said
there are three reference points in
terms of your body in terms of the
external landmarks and in terms of
spaces which is in front or back of your
body so thank you and we'll meet again
in the next lecture
[Music]
you